Jesus said at Luke 21-11 that the last days would be marked by food shortages in one place
after another.
There's no question that we're seeing the fulfillment of that prophecy.
In the last few years, droughts and floods, as well as epidemics, wars, and civil unrest
have wiped out crops and cut off food supplies for millions of people, including many of our
fellow worshipers.
To see many of our brothers are farmers, and a good number of them grow crops as their
primary food source.
When the crops fail, their families have nothing to eat.
Of course, Jehovah knows what his people need.
And in this report, we'd like to share what Jehovah's organization is doing to support
our brothers and sisters who are facing severe food shortages.
The coordinators committee of the governing body began a project in 2022 to assess the
needs of branches most at risk.
The governing body then approved a series of new relief initiatives that are already
helping our brothers get the food they need in times of crisis.
These initiatives include first, assisting publishers to prepare personally for food
shortages, and second, authorizing branches to provide quality seed and even limited
farming supplies to those facing a food crisis.
Let's see what benefit these initiatives have had in three of the branches involved.
Peru, Zambia, and Malawi.
First, let's see what's being done to help our brothers and sisters prepare personally.
In rural areas, some brothers got some animals to raise, or planted vegetables in their gardens.
In the urban areas, the brothers made use of small spaces in their houses, like rooftops
or even windows, where they planted vegetables and pots.
Oh, I quickly did what was suggested.
I bought potatoes, corn, wheat, salt, pasta, and other products.
And I was able to grow some vegetables in a little greenhouse that I made.
That really helped us a lot.
In the jungle, the publishers began to store non-perishable food, plant vegetables and fruits,
and raise animals for their own consumption.
Months later, a very violent protest started that blocked the only access road to the area,
making basic items extremely valuable and causing prices to skyrocket.
However, when the protests intensified even further, the brothers were already prepared
and had what they needed as well as enough to share with others.
Our family quickly organized, and we began planting bell peppers, cucumbers, tomatoes,
and bananas.
We also had to raise some animals like guinea pigs and ducks, so we'd have enough food
to sustain ourselves.
Additionally, we were able to share with our dear brothers in the congregation because
we had fuel.
We used the motorcycle to take food to our brothers.
Because of these efforts, some publishers have been able to sell crops, which helped
them to become or to remain self-sufficient.
Due to drought and climate change in Malawi, brothers and sisters were encouraged to
vary what they grow and when.
Also, in order to maintain some income, we suggested that the brothers don't sell all the
crops at one time, but rather sell them gradually to help them throughout the year.
Initially, we were doubting the instructions from the organisation to plant different crops.
Because here in Malawi, we love maize, and if someone doesn't eat seema, they feel like
they haven't eaten at all.
But the organisation encouraged us to plant different crops.
That is because of climate change.
So we started growing different crops, like pumpkins and potatoes.
When we told our children they wouldn't be eating seema, but instead they would eat pumpkins,
it was difficult for them since they are used to eating seema.
And knowing we needed to change, helped our children to adjust to eating different kinds
of foods and being satisfied.
I really appreciate the suggestions from the organisation to try irrigation farming.
This kind of farming enables us to grow a variety of crops like beans, peas, tomatoes and green
beans, and we can do it throughout the year.
This has proved to be so helpful, because I'm a single parent.
Yet, I'm able to look after my children and my aged mother.
On top of that, I've been able to regular pioneer.
And also from the farming proceeds, I'm able to pay for my medical and hospital bills.
These experiences remind us that things can change quickly.
Whether we live in a rural area or a city, our food supply can be cut off unexpectedly.
That's why we've been urged to have a reasonable reserve of food.
Water, medicine and similar items encase it's necessary to shelter in place for an extended period of time.
Preparing in advance has been a protection for many of our brothers.
But in some parts of the world, such preparations just may not be enough, or may not even be possible.
Natural disasters can wipe out a harvest and leave families with so little that they can't afford food
or even the seed needed to plant for the next year.
In dire situations like this, our brothers need more than encouragement.
Let's see how branches help publishers in need.
Some parts of our branch territory experienced severe drought, while others were hit with floods.
In both cases, it meant the loss of crops needed for survival.
We received approval to provide food for the brother's immediate needs.
We were able to assist with quality seeds and basic farming supplies, like fertilizer and basic farming tools.
In addition, we provided helpful information for those who were able to raise livestock and grow some food all year round.
The DRD works with the DRC's in the field to identify publishers who are adversely affected.
After that, approval is sought to provide relief.
I received the provisions of fertilizer and seed.
Well, when we harvested, I got 650 kg bags of mace.
We had enough food, and we could go to the meetings and preaching. There was plenty.
In 2023, in the year, we assisted 190 new brothers and sisters with gods to breed.
We also provided emotional and spiritual support to the affected brothers.
We were given three goats, one died, but another gave birth, and we were back to three.
That goat is pregnant again, and we're expecting another soon.
My wife and I felt very happy for the goats we received.
We saw that Jehovah in the early part of his organization cares for his servants.
Of course, we cannot end poverty. However, these opportunities to provide support reassure us and them of Jehovah's continued care.
And when a disaster strikes, our response is always scalable.
For example, when there is a small disaster, the needs of those affected can often be cared for by the immediate family members, the friends, the local congregation, or indeed the psychiatry.
I learned to be generous to others who are in need.
I also learned to make regular contributions so that others can also benefit from the support like we have benefited.
I am so happy and appreciative of Jehovah using his organization to give us these practical suggestions.
As you saw, the supplies being delivered through this initiative ranged from quality seed, to basic farming tools, to in a few cases even goats.
Really, the point is to provide whatever these dear brothers and sisters need to survive and to regain the dignity of self-sufficiency.
This is in the spirit of Proverbs 3.27, which says,
Do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it, if it is within your power to help.
At the same time, we need to have realistic expectations.
Jesus said, You always have the poor with you, and those words are certainly proving to be true in this time of the end.
We humbly acknowledge that we can't end poverty, nor is that our goal.
And due to circumstances beyond their control, some of our hard-working brothers struggle to feed their families.
And it's our privilege as an organization to modestly do what we can to help them.
Second Corinthians 8.4 calls us work a relief ministry, and we deeply appreciate the hard work of all of you who are supporting this ministry through your loving labors and your generous donations.
Of course, our primary ministry remains focused on preaching the good news of God's kingdom.
Under that kingdom, everyone will enjoy an abundance of food.
Until then, we rejoice to see how Jehovah is sustaining our brothers and sisters during food shortages.